one moment hello let's go hey hi Cal
we're about to begin
awesome happy to see you here okay
awesome excellent we are going to
officially begin hello my name is Portia
welcome to the ipfs weekly call where we
get to see all the amazing things are
being built in the ipfs community and we
usually start off with announcements it
looks like we don't have any
announcements for today but if you are
part of this call if you could please um
put down your name in our notes that
would be great so I just put in a Google
Doc just put in your name they'll be
great um and so today we are going to
hear from Cael Teeter from Microsoft
he's a senior software engineer and he
also works on blockchain he spoke at
truffle con he has his own podcast he
talks a lot about the decentralized web
and today he's going to talk about IP FS
in enterprise so thank you hey guys hey
so take it away sure so I'm gonna share
my screen here hopefully this all works
ok
you just let me know somebody when you
see it yes we see it awesome okay so
does that cover up any of the slider
like because I can see like our faces
and stuff like what you guys don't see
that right or should I hide that um this
view this she was fine okay now I we
just make the slides like I would just
have like once you don't start the
presentation yet but I would just have
like just the slide and not like the
list of slides to left yes yeah you know
we're great so thanks for the
introduction yes I am a senior engineer
I work on the blockchain engineering
team in Azure been for three and a half
years now since shortly after
etherium launched we started working on
use cases around enterprise specifically
around building consortiums leveraging
not just private change but also public
change but we do focus primarily on
building these consortiums with with
with customers large enterprises and one
of the things that's been coming up
actually quite frequently and we we emit
an offering last year shortly after Def
Con was ipfs for decentralized storage
as part of the consortium and so today I
want kind of want to talk about kind of
what we built there why we built it and
the pieces we built to be honest or
really just wrapping what what you all
have kind of put together as part of the
ipfs protocol and Lib p2p and so just
kind of want to walk through that and
then tell you a little bit about where
we see this going I'll get some feedback
from you guys and just give you some
insight to that so you know in when I
talk about consortiums I'm talking about
essentially a network that's formed
between in this case very simplified
view to participants or to companies
essentially you know when they're
leveraging blockchain technology they
want to stand up a bunch of nodes
whether it be aetherium court a hyper
ledger any of the usual suspects there
and essentially run those nodes in a
scalable highly available way and then
basically have those networks all join
very easily together because it's quite
complex to
you know start building these networks
and so when we see that what we spent a
good part of you know 2016 and 2017
doing was automating that and making
that something that's really easy for
people to kind of spin up invite people
into the network have them join in and
it's a work in progress I mean we
continue because this technology is is
so new that we're continuing to kind of
evolve network governance and how people
join into those networks even to some
extent now I mentioned public how these
things are starting to branch into the
public space like public aetherium and
things like that from a decentralized ID
perspective there's also a lot of public
work going on there but one of the
bigger ones and I'll talk I'll just pick
on core I'm here today which is a
basically a fork of etherium that allows
us to do things like private
transactions so essentially we have our
network running with guests you know
just go with your in client running then
on top of that we have a private
transaction manager who's going to
manage these private transactions so
essentially participant one wants to do
a private transaction with participant
to use disease keys in this Enclave of
the private transaction manager to
encrypt that I send that to him and then
when the block shows up in the
blockchain only participant two is
allowed to basically decrypt and view
that data so that's that's typical
companies like that but if you look at
what IP FS could bring to the ring there
and it's something we run into actually
quite frequently as I mentioned before
in a normal small use case technically
everything works right we have a smart
contract written in solidity that
essentially has some state in it but
then we started branching out and I
think one of the first ones we we kind
of picked on was supply chain and in
supply chain management there's bill of
ladings there's all kinds of other
ancillary documents and data that's
coming along with you know stuff that's
going on in the supply chain so we can
certainly track you know kind of the
work flow what's happening in supply
chain but then we had to basically store
documents off chain and so you know the
first you know naive approach that was
well we can just you know encrypt
files put them in some storage share
them to other people and when you have
like two parties yeah it may work but
once you start getting beyond that into
you know maybe 1520 even beyond that
participants that doesn't scale and so
quickly the members are saying like how
do we we like the blockchain technology
for the state management workflow kind
of thing but we don't like is the fact
that we can't use our files like PDF
files and things like that to come along
with it so how do we do that in a
scalable way that makes it it kind of
fits with what we're doing here and so
initially I'll show you what we put in
Azure to kind of use an experimental
feature that ipfs has for basically
creating private or permissioned
versions of ipfs and then they're
allowed to essentially as long as you
remember that network upload files to
there so basically let me just jump out
there and show you what we have and feel
free to jump in here guys if you have
questions or if I'm going too fast or
anything so essentially I mean azure
here right now we basically have a
catalog here and we have ipfs published
up there we published it on behalf of
you guys right now so we basically and
I'll show you the source code behind the
scenes what we did there we're basically
just wrapping the IP FS client in a
docker container and then doing some
orchestration to spin it up to end-users
they come into the marketplace like the
commander here and they would just say I
want to create something new as part of
that they could type IP FS and I have it
in beta here right now just because some
of the features we don't have fully lit
up I'll show you what those are in a
second but essentially you can hit
create here and then it'll basically
walk you through how big do you want the
network to be how many nodes how fast
you want it to be and it'll essentially
go build a bunch of IP FS nodes make
them private by flipping the flag in
lupita P and also you know building a
swarm key and setting all that
orchestration up so basically automating
all those pieces so you don't have to
deal with it now I have one stood up
here already
which essentially is just a couple nodes
I think for this demo I just had to
so I have one in the East Coast right
here and then I have one in the UK you
can see a bunch of other stuff gets
built around it most of this is just for
the VM so there's some IPs here there's
a virtual network that gets formed these
virtual networks we have a feature in
Azure that allows us to join them easily
peering um so if it comes up here second
I'll show you that but essentially what
it does is allows us to build a private
tunnel using our dark fiber links
between the data centers so we're taking
a second we can run through there and
basically you can build these peering
between them so that they can
communicate just as they're on the same
network you can see these are connected
right now and then essentially we have
our neck cards we have some load
balancers here the load balancers
essentially what I was doing there was
if we if we form a network and I say hey
I'm participant one I want to have five
nodes for some reason in my network just
because I think there's going to be a
lot of load or something I can
essentially put a internal load balancer
in front of that so anytime any of these
others let's say I'm working with
somebody in the UK my other participant
in the network they can communicate
through that one it'll just spread it
across our nodes in case one of them
goes down however any of that kind of
stuff
we have availability sets in here to
protect the data so basically they're
durable VMs that's pretty much it there
I mean when they're stood up it's pretty
basic here's the actually if you look at
the there's a docker container running
on this one this is two node so this
guys in the East Coast this guy's in the
UK do you mind doing in please sure let
me see if I can just do this I might
need to jump out of T MUX to show that
give me a second here maybe what I'll do
is just kill this one
[Music]
hopefully that's a little better yeah so
basically we just have a docker
container you can see it's running out
of one of our private docker repos so
this is part of our build process I'll
show you in a second how that works
behind the scenes but essentially we
have a docker repository that's running
in Azure we call it the azure container
registry and then essentially it's
spinning up these nodes if you look at
the logs for it just to show you what it
looks like when it boots up basically
it's gonna essentially spin up download
all the bits for ipfs it's basically
then going to do this bootstrap it's
gonna remove all the public nodes and
then it's going to generate a swarm key
and then it's going to go ahead and boot
up using that key and basically restrict
itself only to private on this interface
and this is running right now so we have
if we did like and primarily we just
have people come through HTTP so I'll
just show you it locally here but you
can see I have another peer here which
is the guy this is running in the UK
right now and here it's - so what
happened out there whenever we spin
these up is and probably I should walk
through just show you what it looks like
as you create a new network or if you're
joining an existing one what ends up
happening is after the deployment
happens so you'll spin up a bunch of
nodes here you'll get some output you
can use to share with others so one of
the outputs is once this comes up
so basically we have our boot node so
we're spinning up a new network this is
what other people would talk to we have
our swarm key and then if we had a VPN
gateway we would do that so let me show
you what that looks like a little bit so
for creating a new one basically just
tell it if we want to use you know
premium SSD or regular SSD or hard drive
or cost savings or any of that kind of
stuff that you want to do we pick our
subscription we want to deploy it to we
can create a new resource group which is
just a container that the things going
to run inside of we pick the location we
want the stuff to deploy to pretty much
all of our Azure locations from shreddy
Canada pretty much worldwide
the networks where there's some
interesting settings here once it loads
up here so essentially here's our
compute nodes we limited to ten right
now and that's primarily just a function
of how we have some of the template
being done right now but we could we
could certainly lift at we just haven't
had a demand for more than you know five
or six usually is that is the norm
you can basically pick the size of the
VM how many how much CPU and memory is
there and then you could say I want to
spin up a new network I want to join an
existing one so if you join an existing
one you'll pick a member ID which
essentially is just used for network
governments so if I spin up a new
Network and then I say hey and bite you
to it I'll say you are member number two
or you remember number three they would
pick that when they come in and they
would also add the swarm key into
boutonnat IP address on that I gave them
out-of-band we're looking to automate
that and I'll talk about that and some
of the next steps that we're looking to
take with this but for now it's kind of
an out-of-band process so that people
have their networks protected so
basically they just manually invite
somebody to that and then you can see
here you can actually spin up a full VPN
tunnel if you want to do that which is
basically IPSec tunnel so essentially if
I'm saying hey I definitely want to
connect other people to this I would
hate yes here it would spin that up as
part of the deployment and then I would
also share the pre shared key there for
people to join into that at work once it
once it's deployed
cool so let's jump back over here
quickly
sake we're 15 so I wanted to talk a
little bit about you know that's that's
some of the basics so just basically
spinning up a private IP FS knodel and a
sure in an automated form joining a
network creating a new one and that's
kind of what I talked about is the first
box here of decentralized shared storage
so now when people spin up their quorum
cluster or hyper ledger fabric cluster
or court a cluster and they say I want
to have some Alabama storage for that
they can also come in here and use this
template and basically spin up that
decentralized network invite the other
members that they want to join into that
network as part of their whole
blockchain solution now some of the
things that's you know quickly bubble up
when you start doing this stuff is
privacy and encryption there's a big one
that people as well as key management
kind of goes along with that and so what
I mean by that is these files now once
we have this decentralized network stood
up they are available to anybody who has
access to that anybody who would have
access to those endpoints as part of the
consortium and if there is possibilities
that inside a network let's say there's
10 people in the network 10 different
companies maybe company 1 and company 2
we're doing private transactions on
quorum they also want to have private
documents or a private decentralized
storage and so what we're looking to do
is actually if I jump back to this slide
quickly to show you we're looking to
essentially try to use leverage the
Enclave that we have for private
transaction manager to also use that as
the key for encrypting and decrypting
the ipfs data this way the end users
when they set up their network they
don't have to maintain even another set
of keys just to do this kind of
encryption decryption or privacy of that
it could be transparent to them this way
as they're doing their transaction in
Coram it's automatically saying oh I got
another file that goes with that I'm
going to use this key for encryption
when the receiving party gets it he'll
use his key from the Enclave to decrypt
it something we're working on with with
quorum to see to make that real because
the reality is they need to be able to
keep these at file level basically
security the network invitation
is still a little much out-of-band right
now so essentially as people are
onboarding into that network it's very
much like I have to contact you through
email or something like that and say hey
you know you want to join my network
I've stood up the decentralized network
as part of it that's something we have
automated and other templates with email
so essentially you could it's the end of
that template that I showed you select
check a box to say invite so-and-so to
this network which would send them a
formatted email that basically says go
into Azure or you could use you know
other clouds if you want to with Azure
be automated and basically plug these
parameters in there and you can join
into this network so that's something
we're looking to kind of extend there to
make it easier for people to use these
and to be honest I think the longer term
you know cycle for this will be just as
part of the template that we spin up
quorum with or hyper ledger recorder in
these other networks we're just gonna
yeah I think we should add an optional
section at the end of that it just says
hey while you're spinning up your your
blockchain Network go ahead and spin up
some ipfs nodes I'm just making an
optional component so they don't have to
do two different deployments they can
just do it as part of one so I mean I
have some links here and things to this
stuff I showed you here and we continue
to put sample code up here we're gonna
be doing some hackathons here leading up
to a theory oh and we'd like to kind of
build some more of this stuff around
that as well to help people you know
with specific industry vertical things
like supply chain and showing the
complete demo with you know here's how I
set up my network with quorum and here's
how I PFS linked into that here's the
whole flow so people don't get lost
because there's a couple templates right
now to spin that up and then I have a
user voice out there for for anybody
that has any feedback and that's pretty
much what we've been working on so we
put this out there we get we'd be
getting some hits on it so we have some
telemetry coming back around people
using it and we've got a lot of interest
from ferment aside saying this is this
is what we need except for we also want
that privacy aspect so if you can add
that on to be great so that's uh that's
what we're at I love to hear any
questions
comments awesome thank you very much
yeah all right um it's time for
questions if you have any questions or
comments if you could put them in a chat
that would be great um and kill do you
mind if you could stop sharing sure
ask them thank you
yeah I can see everyone's faces now okay
so um thank you very much for their
presentation and let us start with
questions and we will start with Johnny
crunch um Johnny crunch can you please
tell us what is your question yes the no
surprise I have lots of questions one is
how do you verify the the code that
you've actually deployed is it hasn't
been altered number one two is actually
how are you integrating with the D ID
method spec for management of keys
sure so on the code verification so I
didn't show you this and I can actually
I'm not sharing now but is it okay if I
reach here here uh yes so if you
see my screen this is kind of like the
internals like how our templates are
kind of built out this is our docker
build over here and basically the steps
that go along with that and then
essentially whenever it gets deployed
essentially on the VM we run this bash
script so this installs docker we
essentially lock the version in here so
we're locked a 4:17 right now and then
essentially when we pull those bits down
actually there is part they're packaged
as part of the docker that's right so
they get pulled in into this and we're
just doing a double you get here right
now centaur beta we don't compare the
md5 hash or any kind of thing on that so
maybe that's something we should do in a
future to guarantee the bits that we're
pulling from ipfs are legitimate and
then essentially the swarm key that gets
generated I have a little application
inside of here it's a little node based
application that generates the swarm key
and then a swarm key is essentially only
only exposed on my network if you go and
look at the template output it's treated
as like a quote-unquote secret which
basically means it doesn't show up in
any of our log files or any of that kind
of stuff so it's there it exists as the
network spinning up and I can choose to
share it with people but as far as like
from a privacy standpoint we don't leave
that hanging around or out there
publicly exposed kind of thing that's
that's the first part like how do we
verify the two bits are good in this
second part sorry remind me was ID ID
method specs yeah
so you mentioned in passing yeah so
there's been a lot of work in it
specifically I've been working with both
the consensus group so christian Rovin
and those guys from you port as well as
Daniel Buckner on our side who's part of
the D ID and a diff as a whole an ahkam
is the other trio I mean there's others
involved in the space obviously but
those are the ones I've been mostly
focused on and the idea is we want to
start leveraging that we don't have this
deployed publicly yet but what we want
to start doing is using those as the
actors so in in Coram right now so like
when participants are on boarding into
the network they essentially are tied to
no
so there's a privacy transaction note I
want to kind of spin that a little bit
because the problem is we're getting
companies where there's a large amount
of people in there and we can't have
like you know we could have you know
hundreds of keys over there tied to this
Enclave but we're looking to kind of
extend the D ID spec for kind of role
based or group based back management
this way as people are onboarding to
like these ipfs node clusters or even
the quorum or you know hyper ledger
networks or whatever we can leverage
that to say hey he's in accounting or
he's in the warehouse those kind of
things so whenever that person gets
fired or moves on from the company we
don't have problems you know coming back
there and essentially the decoupling of
the key mechanism as part of the di D
spec it is integral there right so we
have an HSM inside a sure that we're
using as your key bow which supports you
know the curves force area and in those
groups and essentially we want to
leverage that as a backing store but
there's still some work to do there to
be honest to make that whole thing join
together because we have some work to do
on key recovery to make that work really
well in an enterprise but yeah that's
that's where we want to go is basically
get the keys that are in those enclaves
they're signing transactions kind of
decoupled from the user in such a way
that we can recover them so I'm working
on this right now and did you have any
documentation or a pointer to insure
interfacing with the Enclave uh with the
Corp specifically or Microsoft yeah yeah
I can share the azure key ball link for
the stuff we've done there and then also
the work we're doing with test Sarah as
part of quorum is the first one that we
were doing but they're enclaves as well
and what about local to the device if
you're actually going to be like say
encrypting something and you actually
wanted to be decrypted with the hardware
encryption built into a Microsoft device
so we do have a beta out there of you
sure if you're part of the diff or any
of the D ID you've seen we just released
the so basically the attenti cater app
that we had which was like ah the-- we
basically are extending that and so they
put a beta out of that
so I can I'll send a link to that as
well if you're interested to check it
out it's mostly for mobile you know use
the Enclave in the phone to also do the
key storage and signing cool and just a
shameless self plug is I just put in the
notes the D ID the IP ID and you
planetary identifier is the ID methods
back is up and we certainly welcome
feedback it's a draft and I'm going to
Barcelona into the week to actually to
discuss it with the
working group with w3c awesome and all
these links will be available in the
show notes and I'll also put them in the
YouTube video once this video goes up so
we'll have all that stuff available and
next question from dan dan would like to
know is the source code available for
what you just presented to us today so
can we find a source code yeah I'm happy
to share the source from the template to
be honest it's not really hidden so when
you deploy stuff in Azure the last step
right before you created it says
download template and parameters most of
the sources there but I'm happy to share
it we don't have it in a public repo as
of yet but there's nothing secret there
so I'm happy to share it with the group
ultimately we want to make that open
source you know just get that out there
but it does take a little bit of work
inside Microsoft for me to get all that
stuff done so we're we're just getting
started here
no one happy to share it privately so if
anyone needs it you know right now I'm
happy to share it with this group I can
just archive it and zip it up or
something until we get it in a public
repo are there any other questions
Matt are you seeing more pushed for
encrypted content or non encrypted
content from enterprise yeah most of its
encrypted right because most enterprises
or companies that are working in space
it's like a need-to-know basis for
transaction details and so they would
much rather opt people into that then by
default have it shown to everyone that
can vary some but that's the general
rule is that people want to see that
stuff encrypted and basically even as
needed basis they allow people to see it
kind of thing okay we have time for one
more question do you have another
question I have a question um throughout
the presentation you did mention
encryption but I'm wondering Kail do you
have a wish list of what kind of
features you would like to see coming
from ipfs that's a good question yeah I
mean to be honest it's been really easy
working with the binaries and things
that the builds that I've gotten out of
you guys today
I guess the bigger question I would have
is the feature I'm using there in Lib
p2p which is basically that flag to tell
it to do private as well as so noticing
what public is that's labeled
experimental I'm wondering what the
roadmap is there for that is this
something the you know protocol Labs is
looking to basically say we'll support
this in the future because you know
we're looking to drive this with big
enterprise and just wondering what the
stance is from that on that on the
private setting I guess that's more of a
Lib p2p question but at depth um do we
have anyone who's working a limp you
peanut could answer that question on a
call if not I we can definitely follow
up help okay yeah just like to make sure
we're not deploying stuff out here that
people go why is this experiment over
well that is it for a call Cale thank
you very much for sharing or a
presentation
your time with us and for everyone else
I will see you next week at the ipfs
weekly call and have a great week take
care bye thanks guys thank you
you